Here's something that people get wrong.
Models have gotten way better at design,
and we've seen them keep improving every
day. But at some point, all those great
designs start to look the same. So, the
real question is, what makes your design
actually stand out? A lot of that comes
down to the right prompts and
instructions. And this is where skills
come in because now the ones that
actually work can be packaged into a
reusable workflow you can share with
anyone. So, a lot of people have been
building skills for design and some of
the best ones come straight from the
teams behind the tools. But not every
skill out there is worth using and a lot
of them don't really help with your
design. Now, for some context, we're a
software company and this is our channel
AI Labs. And on this channel, we show
you how to optimize processes with AI
just like how we've optimized our own.
Before we dive into some of the more
creative skills, let's start with one
that forms the basis of many other
design skills. Anthropic's front-end
design skill is the one that shapes the
design direction of your site, and we've
used it in our previous video, too.
After you've generated enough landing
pages with AI, you start noticing a
pattern where the sites are all
different but somehow feel the same.
That's because the model learned from a
huge amount of data full of the same
patterns. So whenever it has to make a
design call, it reaches for the most
common one. So the design keeps drifting
toward the same safe generic choices no
matter what the project actually is. And
that's the exact problem this skill
solves. It escapes those safe choices by
forcing the model to commit to a real
design direction before it writes
anything. Instead of defaulting to the
safe common look, it has to pick a
direction and stay consistent with it.
It even calls out the usual AI slop
directly in its skill.md file, which is
basically the skills instruction sheet.
So, the model stops reaching for the
same overused fonts and the purple
gradients on white backgrounds. And that
matters more than it sounds because when
most models build a landing page,
they're optimizing to be correct. But
this skill pushes them to commit to a
design direction instead. So we mainly
reach for it on landing pages or
portfolios where the design itself is
part of the product since it gives the
model a stronger point of view before it
starts. To test it, we had it build a
landing page and gave it our
requirements and it generated a site
with none of the usual AI slop because
it stuck to the design direction it
committed to instead of drifting into
the usual defaults. In AI labs design
system, we've got two skills, each made
for a separate job. There's the
functional skill which builds the UI
people actually have to use like
dashboards and then there's one for
marketing UI. Inside the marketing one,
the skill.md uses a prompt called break
the default and that's basically
Anthropic's front-end design skill, just
modified a bit. We modified it because
the originals gotten a little outdated
for the newer models. Opus 4.8 and Fable
5 both shipped with prompting guides
that show how clouds changed and how the
instructions you give it need to change,
too. So, we folded a version of that
into our own design system. As we've
already stated, the anthropic design
skill does not work well with functional
UI. Once you're building actual
products, the problem changes
completely. You're not just trying to
make something look good anymore. You're
trying to build something that works as
a product with a lot of components that
all have to behave properly. This is
where things shift from landing pages
into real applications. For example, in
AIABS Pro, you can see that the landing
page has a much more artistic design
language as opposed to the actual
functional layer of the community, which
looks really boring and plain, just like
any other web interface you have ever
interacted with. And that's where Shad
CNN comes in. Now, models can absolutely
build dashboards on their own, but every
one of the components commonly used in
dashboards already exists, built to a
professional standard by actual people.
So the model doesn't have to generate
components from scratch and configure
animations on its own. It can just pull
the component that's already pre-built
in the registry, which is basically a
big library of ready-made components.
That's the whole point of Shad CN
instead of the model handbuilding each
component. It just pulls from that
library of parts that are already
professional grade and uses them in your
app. And that's why the result feels
like a real product because you're not
starting from a rough first draft and
slowly fixing it up. You're starting
from parts that were already built to
ship. The Shadsian setup has two parts
that work together. The first one is the
skill. Think of it as a rule book.
Shadsen has a specific correct way of
building things and the skill holds all
of those rules. On top of that, it looks
at how your own project is set up. So,
when you ask the model to build
something, the skill makes sure the
result follows Shadsian's rules and fits
the way your project already works. The
benefit is simple. You get clean output
the first time instead of having to go
back and fix the same mistakes over and
over. The second is the Shad CN MCP.
It's basically a live connection to Shad
CN's registry that lets the model browse
and pull real components straight into
your project. Now, you might think, why
use the skill if the MCP already exists
and gives you the components you need?
The answer is that the skill only loads
when it's actually needed instead of
being in the context window all the time
like MCP does. The Shadcen skill gives
the coding agent the rules, patterns,
and the context about your project.
together. Those give it the judgment to
use components correctly. With a normal
app, you build it up one component at a
time, and that approach works well. So,
you might expect it to carry straight
over to a dashboard, and it partly does,
but dashboards have a different core
problem than normal apps. It's less
about keeping components consistent and
more about how all the information is
arranged on the screen. That means
working out how to group the data and
how much can live on one screen before
it gets too cluttered. So there's a
separate skill named dashboard made just
for that not by shaden but by another
developer and it focuses the model on
exactly that arrangement and because it
reasons through that arrangement first
the result actually feels like a real
analytics tool instead of being
cluttered. UIUX Promax works differently
from everything so far. Most skills hand
the model some design principles and
trust it to apply them. But this one
runs an actual engine first. The problem
it's built around is that even with good
direction and a solid set of components,
the model still has to decide what kind
of design choices fit your product. Most
skills treat design as one general idea
of good. So everything drifts toward the
same look no matter what you're
building. And that's the gap this skill
closes. When you ask it to build
something, it doesn't jump straight to
code. It runs an engine first. Behind
the scenes, this engine fires off five
searches at once across its own
open-source database on GitHub. It pulls
the styles that fit your product from
161 industry categories. And out of
those choices, it picks a color palette,
a font pairing, and a page layout that
actually suits the industry you're
building for. Then it filters out
anything that would look wrong for that
kind of product and hands the model a
tailored design system, which is
basically the complete rulebook the
model follows to build the website. So
you get a genuinely strong website where
it matches every design attribute to
your website idea. Instead of the model
inventing a design and hoping it works,
it's building from one that was actually
reasoned out for your exact use case.
This skill is really different from the
others. The others give the model better
taste, while this one gives it a
decision before it starts, tuned to the
kind of product you're actually making.
But before we move forward, let's have a
word by our sponsor, SciPace. If you do
any kind of research, you've probably
used Chad GPT for it. The problem is it
confidently makes up citations and
papers that don't even exist and you
usually don't catch it until that fake
citation is already sitting in your
paper. Sci-pace fixes that and now it
lives right inside chat GPT. To test it,
I opened Cypace, navigated to my profile
and selected ChatGpt app from there to
connect sci-pace. I asked for a
literature review and ChatGpt pulled
relevant studies from SciPace's library
of over 280 million real papers. It also
summarized them and gave me real
clickable citations instead of
hallucinating. And every citation links
straight back to the source. So you can
open the paper and check the exact line
yourself in one click. In head-to-head
tests, it even surfaced more relevant
papers than tools like elillicit and
consensus. So if you're a student or
researcher, connect the SciPace app
inside Chad GPT using the first link in
the description and start getting
research you can finally trust. So far,
everything we've added makes the site
look right while it's sitting still, but
a static page only gets you so far.
Animations are actually important
because they improve the user experience
and they bump up how long people stay on
the website. But the problem is
animation is where AI generated code
falls apart. The actual problem is that
when you ask a model to add animation,
it almost always does the exact same
thing where things slide into view as
you scroll down the page. That one
scroll reveal is basically the only move
it knows, but it's also the same
animation on half the AI built sites out
there and it's nowhere near what Real
Motion can do. This is where the GSAP
skill comes in. GSAP is the animation
library a lot of professional sites
already run on. And this skill comes
straight from the team that builds it.
So instead of the model guessing how it
works, it works from the correct
patterns and it covers everything from
basic movement to the bigger animations
that play as you scroll down a page. It
also handles the performance side, which
is the part most people underestimate. A
big reason AI animations feel janky is
that the model moves things by changing
their size or position. And those
changes force the browser to rebuild the
whole page on every single frame. So,
the skill steers the model toward the
kind of movement the browser can handle
easily. And that one habit alone is what
keeps the animation smooth. Gap is at
its best on landing pages and
scroll-driven storytelling where
everything gets revealed like a story.
So the important details land with the
viewer and that's what takes your
website from a static page to a dynamic
one. This is why in the AI labs design
system we have explicitly mentioned in
the marketing UI skill that whenever
animations are required, it should use
the GAP skill to implement those
animations on the landing pages. This
next group of skills isn't for full
systems. their taste presets you drop in
to push the model toward one specific
look of your choice. First, there's the
minimalist UI one. It's the type of
design where instead of cramming too
much onto the page, you keep things
simple and open. It's the one you reach
for on newspapers or blog sites where
you want the content to breathe instead
of everything fighting for attention. On
the complete opposite side, there's the
industrial brutalist UI skill, which
goes raw and heavy with that
anti-corporate style. Then there's
front-end UIUX, a general all-rounder
for solid defaults when you don't want
anything extreme. It's the safe pick for
a product or a business landing page
that just needs to look clean and
professional. And then there's the
premium front-end UI skill, which makes
sites look like those luxury fashion
brand landing pages. So, you don't stack
all of these at once. Instead, you pick
the one that matches the vibe you're
after and let it steer the design. So,
if you've already got a direction in
your head, these are the fastest way to
hand it straight to the model. By this
point, you can build a site that's
structured well, moves nicely, and has a
real style. But professional-grade
websites need more than just animations.
For professional apps, you need real
image and video visuals. Models on their
own mostly just grab stock images off
the internet. And most of the time, they
don't actually match what you need.
Higsfield is what we use to skip that.
It plugs image and video generation
straight into your agent, so you can ask
for a hero image or a background clip
right where you're working without ever
leaving the terminal. And Higsfield
isn't tied to one model. It's got most
of the good image and video models. So
you're not stuck with the strengths of
just one, and you can use whichever one
suits you. If you're doing video, Seance
is the one worth using since it's one of
the best video generation models right
now. So you get real visuals instead of
static text or gray placeholder boxes on
your website. The previous skills were
all for web. Now we're going to cover
mobile skills where a lot of AI
generated UI quietly falls apart for a
simple reason. Models tend to treat a
phone like a small website, taking the
same web habits and shrinking them down.
But mobile isn't a smaller web. It's its
own thing with its own rules. The way
people hold a phone, where their thumb
can actually reach, how navigation
should work, it's all different. And
every platform has its own design
language that the model usually doesn't
follow properly. There are multiple
skills to optimize mobile development
too. The first is mobile app UI design,
the principles layer. On its own, the
model treats the rules of good mobile
design pretty loosely, but this skill
bakes them in directly. That covers
things like the thumb zone, which keeps
the main buttons where your thumb can
actually reach, along with consistent
spacing and a clean, limited set of font
sizes instead of 10 different ones. And
these are basically the same rules
behind popular apps like Airbnb,
Duolingo, and Spotify. So, the model
ends up designing with that sense
instead of guessing at it. The second is
material 3, which is basically the
mobile version of what Shad Cen did for
the web. It gives the model Google's
actual design system, the one behind
most Android and Pixel apps. Google's
design language has a real personality.
It's bold and colorful with big rounded
shapes and springy motion that sit at
the more expressive end of mobile
design. The skill brings the whole
system of components and colors, so you
hand it one color and it builds a full
matching theme. It even checks how
closely your app follows Google's
guidelines, so the app you're building
matches the design system exactly. But
if you're building fully native on the
iPhone, you can use the Swift UI skills.
Apple's design sits at the opposite end
from Google. Where material is bold and
colorful, Apple is more restrained and
it leans on that translucent glassy look
it now calls liquid glass. The skill
pulls Apple's own documentation straight
out of Xcode on your Mac and hands it to
the model as the rules. So, the model
isn't guessing at what an Apple app
should feel like. It's working from
Apple's actual guidance. And instead of
something that only looks roughly like
an iPhone app, you actually get one that
feels native. And if you're building for
iPhone and Android at the same time,
there's the official Expo skill. Expo is
a framework for making one app that runs
on both Android and iOS. So you're not
building the same app twice. It covers
everything you need for a real app that
runs on both. From the navigation and
styling to the platform features, all in
one place. So whether you're building
for one platform or both at once,
there's a skill that actually knows the
territory. Now, all the skills and
workflows and everything else we build
and show you in these videos can be
found in AIABS Pro, which is our
community. That's where you'll get the
resources, the starter packs, and more,
along with a place to interact with a
bunch of like-minded nerds, including
our team. So, if you found value in what
we do and want to support the channel,
this is the best way to do it. The links
in the description. That brings us to
the end of this video. If you'd like to
support the channel and help us keep
making videos like this, you can do so
by using the super thanks button below.
As always, thank you for watching and
I'll see you in the next one.